---
title: "USAF Maintainer to Software Engineer"
date: 2020-03-21T13:00:00Z
draft: false
author: ""
authorLink: ""
description: "My Journey from 7 years as a US Air Force Aircraft Mechanic to Software Engineer."
license: ""

tags: [military, journey, transitions, software]
categories: [transitions]
hiddenFromHomePage: false

featuredImage: "/images/usaf-maintainer-to-software-engineer/featured-image.png"
featuredImagePreview: ""

toc: true
autoCollapseToc: true
math: true
lightgallery: true
linkToMarkdown: true
share:
  enable: true
comment: true
---

## Deciding to be Better

Prior to joining the military, my life-direction was uncertain, floundering about with interests all over the place. From music production to computer support where I was working, visions of grandeur were a part of my daily thinking. I did have plenty of time for self-reflection and thinking about where I was heading, but one of the biggest things I noticed about myself was the inability to finish anything. 

College was a two-year-long really expensive party before I decided I was in the wrong environment. The vision of my future departed quickly from my actual trajectory. The existential dread of a poor future really hit me when I couldn't even finish a book. Not that you need to finish every book you read, but at that time it was a noticeable trend and the book was the last straw.

I knew I needed something to kick my ass, so I set out to place myself in a situation where I would be forced to sink or swim, where the consequence of failure is unacceptable and the simplest path would be to adapt and push forward. Could I challenge myself to succeed in an environment that wasn't totally agreeable?

Around this time I picked up a book called ["Think and Grow Rich" by Napolean Hill](https://www.naphill.org/shop/books/paperback/think-and-grow-rich-the-1937-edition/) and it did a wonder on my perspective of life. Business had been a passive interest, and this really cemented in my mind that I'd love to pursue ways to add value to people's lives through a business.

All this reflection really pointed me toward the military, so - enter the United States Air Force. I had experience working computer break-fix support, and wasn't thrilled about continuing down that path, so I took a slot as a KC-135 Crew Chief to turn some wrenches. yay.

## Finding Software

After I had been in for a little over a year, I had been accumulating business ideas, some simple, some simply outlandish in hindsight. As eager as I was to get started, the brick wall was that these were technology ideas, and I had next to no expertise in this. One day I just decided to sit down and work through the HTML & CSS at [Codecademy](https://www.codecademy.com/) which surprised me how much enjoyment could be obtained through marking up bits of text. 

Fortunately, it didn't end there.

I went on to link up with the local [developer community](http://devict.org/) and get a degree in computer programming from [Southwestern College](https://www.sckans.edu/). After some time building small projects here and there, I was hooked.

## Attitude Has Magnitude

The military has a tendency to suck the morale out of new Airmen, especially if you're "lucky" enough to be a maintainer. I realize this is a bit glum, and it's certainly not the story for most people, but you'll get a feel for what I mean if you ever come across the [memes](https://www.reddit.com/r/AirForce/) that are generated by people on that side of the fence. It's an interesting culture, with a rich mix of the good and bad. Anyway, the reason I describe it this way is that it's a decent description of my own attitude toward joining. I had lofty expectations of the military and reality was significantly different.

I also developed an abrupt separation in my life between work and what I did outside of work. Turning wrenches during the day, I had developed a not so great attitude towards my work, however, as soon as I got home, I was banging away at the keyboard learning/writing as much code as I could. During my first deployment, I hated it, and my attitude during that time didn't help my team. We did what we needed to and that was about it. Not a care was given to moving with a sense of urgency.

When I returned home, I had some time to reflect as I started to recognize that my attitude wasn't helping. I came across a quote that dramatically changed the way I view things again.

<br>

> We don't rise to the level of our expectations, we fall to the level of our training. - Archilochus

That hit me hard. Here I was dreaming of becoming a great engineer and business owner but every day I went to work and trained myself to do the bare minimum to get by. _Not exactly greatness material_. From this point I made it a point to do the best I could in any situation. I volunteered for the next deployment fully knowing that the biggest factor in my control was my attitude. My second deployment was significantly better. Our team was picked up for various extra missions and I got to see a totally different side of what it's like to be a high performing team on a deployment.

I returned from the deployment with such a feeling of volition over my future that I ranked up and immediately took a job as an instructor to challenge myself even more. Teaching is one of those things that I'd recommend to any professional, it's a forcing function for getting your shit together and finding out how little you really know about a subject.

## Trust the Process

After being an instructor for a year, I received orders to report to South Korea no later than the beginning of 2019. Since my instructor gig wrapped up in July, this put me in a weird spot. Should I return to my job on the flightline after being away for a year only to go to Korea and do something totally different? Turns out that prior to all of this, I had been doing little coding projects here and there that caught the attention of some people that had the power to make that decision. I was invited to work on a project for the Maintanence Group I was a part of and that it would be my full time commitment. I was fortunate to be able to tackle this project before I left for Korea, I learned a lot.

When I arrived in Korea, I wanted to keep the momentum going, so I started a [software development club](https://devosan.com) for the base and was able to get in touch with other coders that were already there. Turns out there was a project already underway that I could support. They were working on a [bus tracking application](https://github.com/dev-osan/busGPS) for the base and they invited me to help out.

As the summer came and went, finding a job moved to the front of my mind. I knew this wasn't the time to let up on the gas and I was quickly approaching the time I would start terminal. I grabbed a copy of [Cracking the Coding Interview](http://www.crackingthecodinginterview.com/) and started learning what I could. Every day, I would at a minimum attempt a coding interview problem. I also recognized that I was going to need some help if I wanted to really hold myself accountable, so I grabbed a tutor from [Codementor.io](https://www.codementor.io/) and scheduled a session for once a week. This gave me the opportunity to work with a very knowledgeable coder and ask them all sorts of weird questions.

Nonetheless, anxiety was creeping and I felt like I couldn't do enough to prepare to separate from the military and find a job as a software professional. Not only that, but I had met my beautiful girlfriend in Korea and since she's a UK citizen, _where_ I got a job started to matter a lot. Anxiety spending ensued. I paid for resumé services, which I really don't recommend doing, and spent the remaining months adjusting from feedback I received via friends and online communities. I started subscribing to every job board I could find and sending my resume to every opening.

This is called _panic applying_ and a terrible return on the time invested in it. I never heard back from them. Through all of this, I determined that a steady, deliberate approach to finding jobs was going to be key. I needed to [trust the process](https://www.instagram.com/p/B5w8zLNnjz9/) and focus my efforts on the things I could control that yield the greatest returns. For over a year I had been scrolling to the bottom of my messages and checking in with that person I hadn't talked to in a long time. I would simply ask them what they were up to and do some light catching up. You do this to maintain a relationship so that you're not reaching out to them for help after not talking to them for years. All of this was a part of the process, I just needed to relax and trust it.

## Offer Accepted!

By trusting the process and reaching out to people that I knew to let them know I was looking for a job, a large majority of the interviews I received were from people I knew willing to hand deliver my resume to their hiring manager. This is truly the best way to get your foot in the door.

Not to fly in the face of my advice, but it's always good to have a mix of reaching out to people you know and applying to openings that really intrigue you. I came across a Junior Developer posting at [1Password](https://1password.com/) and after a bit of research into the company, decided to give it a go with fingers crossed. I heard back a little later, answered some questions over email, and scheduled an interview with one of the HR personnel. It was a quick culture and logistics fit interview, trying to figure out if we'd be good to move forward together. They did ask me a stumping behavioral question that was quite interesting. After that, a technical interview was scheduled with two engineers that lasted an hour and a half. It wasn't the typical coding interview style, but rather we talked about technology and some of the projects I've worked. Very shortly after, the third round interview was conducted with the VP of Engineering and was a solid mix of technical and behavioral. There weren't any whiteboarding sessions or anything too unrelated to what actual coding looks like.

At this point, my anxiety was skyrocketing. I really wanted this job and I knew that competition was likely high for such a great opportunity. Well, obviously, I received an offer and accepted it. I am extremely grateful for this role and opportunity. The team has been very welcoming and helpful and it's been a wild first week.

Years of banging my head against the keyboard on my nights and weekends is paying off, and I loved every minute of it. This is a dream to be working remotely in software, and a genuine blessing to have secured it during these times. Seriously, the lesson here is to develop a plan, execute, and then **Trust the Process**. (It's a damn process, for sure.) All of this was just _The Hobbit_ to my story.

Now the real learning begins.